Project 0 report for Group 7

Experience of Nagarjun Tumkur Sharathkumar (6366321)

1.  Your experience installing Nachos w/ platform details. 

Installation process of Nachos - I followed the instructions provided in the document 
to ensure a smooth installation process. I downloaded the "nachos-3.4-linux.tar" file 
and moved it to a remote server using the WinSCP application. After doing SSH into the 
dedicated remote server, I created a directory named "nachosdir," extracted the Nachos 
files from tar file, and navigated to the "nachos-3.4/code" directory. Then I entered 
'make' command to compile the nachos, it resulted in the creation of the 
"gnu-decstation-ultrix" and "nachos-3.4" directories. This allowed me to complete the 
installation process effectively. 

2.  Your experience w/ the tests. 

To familiarize myself with Nachos Project, first I executed the command "./threads/nachos". 
This led to an analysis of the system, and I observed the output representing loops of threads. 
Then I executed the command "./nachos -x ../test/halt" from the "userprog" directory. 
This provided the output about the NACHOS simulation's ticks, I/O operations, paging, 
and network I/O. Further, I executed the command "./nachos -s -x ../test/halt" to get an 
insight into machine registers and their behaviour over the time.

3. A description of the Thread class in Nachos. 

The 'Thread' class in NACHOS serves as a building block for concurrent execution, 
representing individual threads of control within the operating system. It 
encapsulates essential thread attributes like ID and state (like ready, running, blocked), 
also it maintains thread-specific stacks, which provides the execution context to be stored, 
and it offers multiple methods to initiate thread execution (e.g. Fork()),  
control to be yielded to other threads (e.g. Yield()), manage time delays (Sleep()), 
synchronize with other threads (Join()), and  termination handle mechanism(Finish()). 
This class forms the basis for comprehending and implementing synchronization and 
multitasking  concepts in OS. 




Experience of Dillon Archer (6224872)

1. Your experience installing Nachos wil platform details.

To install nachos, I began by creating a github repository named nachos. I logged
onto the linux server wolf.cis.fiu.edu, imported the tar file using the wget command into
the downloads folder, then unpacked it in the nachos repository. From there, I ran
the make command to compile the nachos OS. Once I performed the tests and confirmed 
that everything installed correctly, I uploaded the modified repository to github.

2. Your experience with the tests.

After compiling the nachos OS system, I ran the nachos executable in the threads/ folder.
I noted that there were two threads that looped 4 times each. After the fourth
execution of each thread, the program assumed completion as there were no pending
interrupts or any threads ready and running. Next, I went to the userprog/ folder and ran
the ./nachos -x ../test/halt and ./nachos -s -x ../test/halt commands. These commands
simply perform a system call which shuts down the operating system after running with the second
command showing each step the operating system makes in running this command
when the syscall is made. It shows 38 of the 40 registers present and their contents in the 
operating system.

3. A description of the thread class in nachos

The threads/ class in nachos allows the OS to run multiple processes in parallel or allows
simultaneous execution of various parts of a process. It has mutilple states that it 
can take during execution. These are READY, RUNNING, BLOCKED, and JUST_CREATED. The ready
state indicates that the thread is ready for exection, but another thread is currently running.
The RUNNING state indicates that the thread is currently running on the CPU. The BLOCKED
state indicates that the thread's exeuction has been stopped until some external everything
is completed. The JUST_CREATED state indicates that the thread has just been created but has
no stack yet. The thread class also supports a number of functions to aid in the running of
created thread objects such as the *Thread() constructor, Fork(), StackAllocate(), Yield(), '
Sleep(), and Finish() functions.

Experience of Anne Nguyen (5643071)
1. Your experience installing Nachos with platform details 
I first attempted to get Nachos set up using Windows Subsystem for Linux(WSL). 
The main issue with using WSL was that it needed to update all the packages and set the 
environment to the correct path. But the issue that made me switch to wolf.cs.fiu.edu was the 
lack of libraries not being where they are expected to be on WSL. On the wolf server, everything 
ran well and was quick to be set up. What I ended up doing was that I used Window's OpenSSH client 
to work with the nachos file as needed.
2. Your experience with the tests
The tests ran well and were quick to process. The threads demo resulted in the expected output 
and had 130 system ticks in total. The user program halt contained mainly the halt system command 
and it brought the current process to exit. Using the single step mode, I was able to see how the 
simple program were not calling much but it iterated through 12 additional ticks so I could see how 
the program changed through each step.
3. A description of the thread class in Nachos
The thread class in Nachos is the main command unit of the thread demo. It contained the commands 
to make the threads run, make the threads yield processing power to other threads, putting the threads 
to sleep, sending the completed signal when a thread was done executing, checking if the stack overflowed, 
and outputting a status. It also had segments divided between private and public settings, showing the value 
of security to the programmer behind the class.
